# Personal note

This project was also a good opportunity for me to test a "coding-agent first" approach. I proudly resisted the temptation to use any coding agent
until Q3 2025 but it was time to run an experiment to see for myself.

## TL;DR

The current library in `./lib` is today mostly a human-coded result, but it was quite fun working with the
agent at the beginning. The content of `./demo` and `./lib/validation` are still very much generated by the agent with a heavy polish coating on top.

## Feedback

And now, a slightly longer feedback on what happened during this process:

- The first phase was like a honeymoon, short-lived and sweet.

  1. As RTF is a well-known format, the agent generated a basic set of specifications in markdown format in no time.
  2. It had not too much trouble generating a set of document primitives to compose the future document model.
  3. Asking to create a simple render logic from the document model: this worked with a bit of a nudge of simple primitives.
  4. Ta-da, I had a working Proof-of-Concept without having to learn the intricacies of the RTF format.

- From there, it was quite clear that lots of things were not very orthogonal and I had to dig into the RTF format to build an understanding of
  how the various document elements are supposed to be combined together.
- It started to be a bit of a pain to manage the context window, clarify things that were obvious to me and longer-than-I-would like waiting on
  the thing to go through its internal task list.
- Lots a discrepancies in the output, unwieldy library api and duplication was generated as a result.
- By then, it was time in my opinion to switch to human-first approach and I used the coding agent less and less, if at all.
- To the agent's defense, it was quite successful at generating (rather verbose) validation assertions that are still present in the validator.

Was it worth it? I am not convinced but a single data point is not conclusive. It was some fun for sure.
